# EE 361C Project: GPU Sorting
EE 361C (Vijay Garg) Project 12 Team 1. Jack Burrus, Will Easterby, John Koelling, James Sullivan.

Project Overview
-----
For our project, we implement serveral different parallel sorting algorithms to run on a GPU using CUDA. This is the list of algorithms we implemented:
- `mergesort`
- `quicksort`
- `radix_sort`
- `brick_sort`
- `bitonic_sort`

Compiling
-----
Included in this respository is a makefile, which can be used compile each program. To do this, simply run `make` with the algorithm you wish to compile as an argument (ex. `make mergesort`). You can also run `make all` to compile all algorithms. You will need to complite on a linux machine with the cuda module and gcc module loaded.

Running
-----
On a linux machine with a support NVIDIA GPU, you can run any algorithm using the following bash command syntax:

`./algorithm input_array.txt output_array.txt`
- `algorithm`: the name of the algorithm you want to run (ex. mergesort)
- `input_array.txt` (optional, default inp.txt): the name of the file containing the correctly formatted input array
- `output_array.txt` (optional, default out.txt): the filename to output the sorted array to

Example: `./mergesort inp.txt out.txt`

The format of the input text file must be a common seperated list of numbers with no linebreaks in between (see the included testIn10000.txt for an example). The program will output the sorted array to a text file in the same format.

Included in this repository is a test file (testIn10000.txt) and its expected output (testOut10000.txt)

Testing
-----
The makefile also includes targets that can be used for testing each algorithm. This will generate 3 random test arrays of size 100, 1,000, and 10,000 to run for each algorithm and validate that its output is correct. To run the test, run `make runtest-algorithm`, replacing algorithm with the name of the algorithm you want to test (ex. `make runtest-mergesort`). You can also run `make runtest-all` to run the tests for all algorithms. You will need to run in a linux machine with a supported NVIDIA GPU.  
  
Also included are 5 sbatch files that can be used to test on maverick.
- `test_mergesort_bat`
- `test_quicksort_bat`
- `test_radix_sort_bat`
- `test_brick_sort_bat`
- `test_bitonic_sort_bat`

Other included program
-----
Included in this repository are 2 additional programs that can be used to help testing. Both are written in C and should be compiled and run on a linux machine with gcc.

### `generate_array`
This programming can be used to generate an array of specified size and output to a text file for testing.

**Compiling:** `make generate_array`

**Running:** `./generate_array size file_name.txt max_value`
- `size` (optional, default 10000): size of the generated array
- `file_name.txt` (optional, default inp.txt): the name of the file to save the array to
- `max_value` (optional): if specified, all elements of the array will be between 0-max_value \\

Example: `./generate_array 10000 inp.txt 1000`

### `validate`
The program can be used to validate the output of an algorithm is correct given an input array. It will test to make sure the array is the correct size, in ascending, and valid for the given input array. It uses qsort from the C standard library to sort and compare the 2 arrays.

**Compiling:** `make validate`

**Running:** `./validate input_array.txt output_array.txt`
- `input_array.txt` (required): the filename of the input array the program was ran with (unsorted)
- `output_array.txt` (required): the filename of the output array generated by the algorithm

Example: `./validate inp.txt out.txt`